# Fyndoo Data Analytics

Fyndoo Data Analytics (FDA) is the application which exposes the data of the different Fyndoo components in a standard way (for all customers in the same way). If a customer only uses one component, the complete data model will be used, but only a subset will be filled. 

## Process based data model

Fyndoo is a process based application. This means that all changes are implemented using a pre-configured process/workflow. All data in FDAs data model is related to a process number. This means the following:
* All data is available, also of process which are 'in progress'. See **sz_process.processstatus** (1= finished, 0=in progress)
* A process can also be cancelled or result in a *NOT* successful state See **sz_process.finishedsuccessful**
* Process number is often used as primary key and/or foreign key. 
  * This is because the properties of an entity (eg facility) is stored for every process separately
  * It can happen that the properties of an entity is NOT stored for every process. For example for process of **sz_process.ProcessType** = 'LoanOrigination' the table 'sz_annualaccounts' is filled. But for a process of **sz_process.ProcessType** = 'BankAccountChange' the table 'sz_annualaccounts' is not filled.

## FDA uses different zones
Below a description of the different zones.

### * Landing zone ingestion 
``` 
Characteristics: 
* for internal usage (e.g. to fill standard zone)
* a variety of data with high velocity satisfying both batch and stream use cases. 
* preserve the source data in its native format (no transformations) 
* clone of original data to prevent timing and performance issues
````

### * Standard zone 
```
Characteristics:
*	A formatted standardized zone (the configuration in Fyndoo is different for each customer, 
    but all data and configuration is modelled in one 'standard Fyndoo data model')
*	can be used for external usage or can as intermediary staging standard for the report zone
*	It is accompanied by standardization related transformations 
*	Data quality checks are performed (e.g. unique key constraints in data model).
*   Every white label has its own database schema
```
The documentation of the versioned CSV export of the standard zone can be found [here](overview_versions.md)
       
[Graphical overview](latest/relationships.html) of the FDA StandardZone data model generated by Schemaspy. 
(Note: Published for convenience and generated with a recent development version, not guaranteed to match the last version of ‘Data export StandardZone’ version above)


### * Report / consumption zone
```
Characteristics:
*	A consumption zone is the ultimate user facing zone 
*	Use case driven end data products with required transformations
*	Obfuscation of sensitive data. 
*	Examples 
    *	CSV export of standardZone versioned
    *	Excel export of pipeline report
    *	Excel export of Assets under management
    *	Dashboards in superset
```
	
